---
layout: post
title:  2.0.0 Confluent release
categories: hpc update
---

There is an update to the HPC software stack, bringing xCAT to 2.14.1.lenovo1, based on 2.14.1,
and confluent is brought to 2.0.0.

Here are some of the highlighted changes:

# Confluent collective mode

The largest new addition is confluent collective mode.  This allows scaling out confluent services
in an active-active HA fashion.  More details are available in the [documentation]({{site.baseurl}}/documentation/collective.html)

# Allow disabling the autosense capability

The autosense capability may now be disabled if desired:

    confetty set /discovery/autosense enabled=0

# Improved discovery behavior of chained ThinkSystem D2 enclosures

Discovery of chained D2 enclosures is now more robust, notably with respect to replacement of SMMs.

# nodeinventory now offers JSON output

`nodeinventory` command adds --json option for alternate output format

# Secure incremental database backup

`confluentdbutil` adds `-s` argument to enable automated secure backup.  keys.json can be password protected,
and does not need to be backed up in incremental backups.  Therefore it is possible to do one dump with a password
protected keys.json, and then -s to do the incremental changes.  Combine the password protected keys.json with
the most recent incremental backup in order to perform a restore.

# Performance improvement

Significant optimization was performed to deliver significantly improved performance for many use cases.

# Various bug fixes

For a complete list of changes, see our [git revisions](https://github.com/xcat2/confluent/compare/1.8.0...2.0.0 "Changes from 1.8.0 to 2.0.0")

