---
layout: post
title:  1.8.0 Confluent release
categories: hpc update
---

There is an update to the HPC software stack, bringing xCAT to 2.13.8.lenovo2, based on 2.13.8,
and confluent is brought to 1.8.0.

Here are some of the highlighted changes:

# Added a `nodemedia` command

There is a new command `nodemedia` that can manage upload and attaching files as virtual USB devices on Lenovo ThinkSystem servers.

# Lenovo switches in the discovery facility as exposed by `nodediscover` as type `lenovo-switch`

Lenovo switches will now have their addresses enumerated if their management ports are connected by default.  As of 1.8.0,
this is merely listing the addresses, and does not yet auto-deploy configuration.

# Zero-power discovery of chained ThinkSystem D2 enclosures with newer firmware

confluent can now discover chained D2 enclosures without requiring the nodes to PXE boot.  More can be read at [chained D2 discovery]({{site.baseurl}}/documentation/chainedsmmdiscovery.html "Chained D2 Discovery")

# Add `nodediscover clear`

Discovery entries can now be cleared by the `clear` argument to `nodediscover`.  This can also selectively clear data by specifying the usual selectors documented in the command.

# UEFI and other settings can now be managed by `nodeconfig`

The `nodeconfig` command has been extended to show UEFI data.  To get the previous behavior and only the previous behavior, can do `nodeconfig noderange bmc` for faster execution.  See the [man page]({{site.baseurl}}//documentation/man/nodeconfig.html "nodeconfig man page") for more details.


# Specifically target different firmware version retrieval in `nodefirmware`

Notably, `nodefirmware noderange core` will get only core firmware, which tends to be a quicker operation.

# Group membership can now by managed by `nodeattrib` and `nodegroupattrib` using `,=` and `^=` 

It is now easier to add and remove nodes from a group, and vice-versa.  See the [man page]({{site.baseurl}}/documentation/man/nodeattrib.html "nodeattrib man page") for more detail.


# Dynamically adjust console session retry timer

Console's should reconnect naturally on a more aggressive timescale for smaller clusters

# Environment variables may now be used to pass attribute values to `nodeattrib`

`-e` has been added to the nodeattrib to read values from environment variables.  For example, to set a password without it showing up in `ps` output, `export BMCPASS=Passw0rd; nodeattrib n1 -e bmcpass`

# The web interface has a new rackview

The rackview has been revamped significantly.

# Web UI now allows adding/removing nodes and groups

The configuration menu now has options to edit nodes and groups.

# Numerous bugfixes

For a complete list of changes, see our [git revisions](https://github.com/xcat2/confluent/compare/1.7.2...1.8.0 "Changes from 1.7.2 to 1.8.0")

